
8. Lists                                                       *vimwiki-lists*

While writing lists, the keys <CR>, o and O insert new bullets or numbers as
you would expect it. A new bullet/number is inserted if and only if the cursor
is in a list item. If you use hard line wraps within your lists then you will
need to remap `<CR>` to `VimwikiReturn 3 5`, use <S-CR>, or press <CR> and
<C-L><C-M>.

Note that the mapping <S-CR> is not available in all terminals.

Furthermore, <CR> and <S-CR> behave differently when the cursor is behind an
empty list item. See the table below.

To customize the behavior you should use an autocmd or place the mappings in
`~/.vim/after/ftplugin/vimwiki.vim`. This is necessary to avoid an error that
the command `VimwikiReturn` doesn't exist when editing non Vimwiki files.: >

  autocmd FileType vimwiki inoremap <silent><buffer> <CR>
              \ <C-]><Esc>:VimwikiReturn 3 5<CR>
  autocmd FileType vimwiki inoremap <silent><buffer> <S-CR>
              \ <Esc>:VimwikiReturn 2 2<CR>

Note: Prefixing the mapping with `<C-]>` expands iabbrev definitions and
requires Vim > 7.3.489.

The first argument of the command :VimwikiReturn is a number that specifies
when to insert a new bullet/number and when not, depending on whether the
cursor is in a list item or in a normal line: >

 Number │     Before     │    After
 ======================================
    1   │ 1. item|       │ 1. item
        │                │ 2. |
        │––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––       ← default for <CR>
        │ 1. item        │ 1. item
        │    continue|   │    continue
        │                │    |
 ======================================
    2   │ 1. item|       │ 1. item
        │                │    |
        │––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––       ← default for <S-CR>
        │ 1. item        │ 1. item
        │    continue|   │    continue
        │                │ 2. |
 ======================================
    3   │ 1. item|       │ 1. item
        │                │ 2. |
        │––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
        │ 1. item        │ 1. item
        │    continue|   │    continue
        │                │ 2. |
 ======================================
    4   │ 1. item|       │ 1. item
        │                │    |
        │––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
        │ 1. item        │ 1. item
        │    continue|   │    continue
        │                │    |
<

The second argument is a number that specifies what should happen when you
press <CR> or <S-CR> behind an empty list item. There are no less than five
possibilities:
>
 Number │     Before     │    After
 ======================================
    1   │ 1. |           │ 1.
        │                │ 2. |
 ======================================
    2   │ 1. |           │                    ← default for <S-CR>
        │                │ 1. |
 ======================================
    3   │ 1. |           │ |
        │                │
 ======================================
    4   │ 1. |           │
        │                │ |
 ======================================
    5   │     1. |       │ 1. |
        │                │
        │––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––       ← default for <CR>
        │ 1. |           │ |
        │                │
<


                                                   *vimwiki-list-manipulation*
The level of a list item is determined by its indentation (default and
Markdown syntax) or by the number of list symbols (MediaWiki syntax).

Use gll and glh in normal mode to increase or decrease the level of a list
item. The symbols are adjusted automatically to the list items around it.
Use gLl and gLh to increase or decrease the level of a list item plus all
list items of lower level below it, that is, all child items.

Use <C-T> and <C-D> to change the level of a list item in insert mode.

See |vimwiki_gll|, |vimwiki_gLl|, |vimwiki_glh|, |vimwiki_gLh|,
|vimwiki_i_<C-T>|, |vimwiki_i_<C-D>|


Use gl followed by the desired symbol to change the symbol of a list item or
create one. Type gL and the symbol to change all items of the current list.
For default syntax, the following types are available: >
    - hyphen
    * asterisk
    # hash
    1. number with period
    1) number with parenthesis
    a) lower-case letter with parenthesis
    A) upper-case letter with parenthesis
    i) lower-case Roman numerals with parenthesis
    I) upper-case Roman numerals with parenthesis

Markdown syntax has the following types: >
    - hyphen
    * asterisk
    + plus
    1. number with period

MediaWiki syntax only has: >
    * asterisk
    # hash

In insert mode, use the keys <C-L><C-J> and <C-L><C-K> to switch between
symbols. For convenience, only the commonly used symbols can be reached
through these keys for default syntax.

Note that such a list: a) b) c) … only goes up to zz), to avoid confusion with
normal text followed by a parenthesis.
Roman numerals go up to MMMM) and numbers up to 2147483647. or
9223372036854775807. depending if your Vim is 32 or 64 bit.

Also, note that you can, of course, mix different list symbols in one list, but
if you have the strange idea of putting a list with Roman numerals right after
a list using letters or vice versa, Vimwiki will get confused because it
cannot distinguish which is which (at least if the types are both upper case
or both lower case).

See |vimwiki_glstar|, |vimwiki_gl#| |vimwiki_gl-|, |vimwiki_gl-|,
|vimwiki_gl1|, |vimwiki_gla|, |vimwiki_glA|, |vimwiki_gli|, |vimwiki_glI|


Use glr and gLr if the numbers of a numbered list are mixed up. See
|vimwiki_glr| and |vimwiki_gLr|.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Todo lists                                                *vimwiki-todo-lists*

You can have todo lists -- lists of items you can check/uncheck.

Consider the following example: >
 = Toggleable list of todo items =
   * [X] Toggle list item on/off.
     * [X] Simple toggling between [ ] and [X].
     * [X] All list's subitems should be toggled on/off appropriately.
     * [X] Toggle child subitems only if current line is list item
     * [X] Parent list item should be toggled depending on its child items.
   * [X] Make numbered list items toggleable too
   * [X] Add highlighting to list item boxes
   * [X] Add [ ] to the next list item created with o, O and <CR>.

Pressing <C-Space> on the first list item will toggle it and all of its child
items: >
 = Toggleable list of todo items =
   * [ ] Toggle list item on/off.
     * [ ] Simple toggling between [ ] and [X].
     * [ ] All of a list's subitems should be toggled on/off appropriately.
     * [ ] Toggle child subitems only if the current line is a list item.
     * [ ] Parent list item should be toggled depending on their child items.
   * [X] Make numbered list items toggleable too.
   * [X] Add highlighting to list item boxes.
   * [X] Add [ ] to the next list item created using o, O or <CR>.

Pressing <C-Space> on the third list item will toggle it and adjust all of its
parent items: >
 = Toggleable list of todo items =
   * [.] Toggle list item on/off.
     * [ ] Simple toggling between [ ] and [X].
     * [X] All of a list's subitems should be toggled on/off appropriately.
     * [ ] Toggle child subitems only if current line is list item.
     * [ ] Parent list item should be toggled depending on its child items.
   * [ ] Make numbered list items toggleable too.
   * [ ] Add highlighting to list item boxes.
   * [ ] Add [ ] to the next list item created using o, O or <CR>.

Parent items should change when their child items change. If not, use
|vimwiki_glr|. The symbol between [ ] depends on the percentage of toggled
child items (see also |g:vimwiki_listsyms|): >
    [ ] -- 0%
    [.] -- 1-33%
    [o] -- 34-66%
    [O] -- 67-99%
    [X] -- 100%

You can use |vimwiki_gln| and |vimwiki_glp| to change the "done" status of a
checkbox without a childitem.

It is possible to toggle several list items using visual mode. But note that
instead of toggling every item individually, all items get checked if the
first item was unchecked and all items get unchecked if the first item was
checked.

Use gl<Space> (see |vimwiki_gl<Space>|) to remove a single checkbox and
gL<Space> (see |vimwiki_gL<Space>|) to remove all checkboxes of the list the
cursor is in.

You can mark an item as rejected ("won't do") with
|vimwiki_glx|. A rejected item will not influence the status of its parents.
