11. Anchors                                                  *vimwiki-anchors*

Every header, tag, and bold text can be used as an anchor.  To jump to it, use
a wikilink of the form >
  [[file#anchor]]

For example, consider the following file "Todo.wiki": >
  = My tasks =
  :todo-lists:
  == Home ==
    - [ ] bathe my dog
  == Work ==
    - [ ] beg for *pay rise*
  == Knitting club ==
  === Knitting projects ===
    - [ ] a *funny pig*
    - [ ] a *scary dog*

Then, to jump from your index.wiki directly to your knitting projects, use: >
  [[Todo#Knitting projects]]

Or, to jump to an individual project, use this link: >
  [[Todo#funny pig]]

Or, to jump to a tag, use this link: >
  [[Todo#todo-lists]]

If there are multiple instances of an anchor, you can use the long form which
consists of the complete header hierarchy, separated by '#': >
 [[Todo#My tasks#Knitting club#Knitting projects#scary dog]]

If you don't feel like typing the whole stuff, type just [[Todo# and then
|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-O| to start the omni completion of anchors.

For jumping inside a single file, you can omit the file in the link: >
  [[#pay rise]]


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents                    *vimwiki-toc* *vimwiki-table-of-contents*

You can create a "table of contents" at the top of your wiki file.
The commando |:VimwikiTOC| creates the magic header >
  = Contents =
in the current file and below it a list of all the headers in this file as
links, so you can directly jump to specific parts of the file.

For the indentation of the list, the value of |vimwiki-option-list_margin| is
used.

If you don't want the TOC to sit in the very first line, e.g. because you have
a modeline there, put the magic header in the second or third line and run
:VimwikiTOC to update the TOC.

If English is not your preferred language, set the option
|g:vimwiki_toc_header| to your favorite translation.

If you want to keep the TOC up to date automatically, use the option
|vimwiki-option-auto_toc|.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tagbar integration                                            *vimwiki-tagbar*

As an alternative to the Table of Contents, you can use the Tagbar plugin
(http://majutsushi.github.io/tagbar/) to show the headers of your wiki files
in a side pane.
Download the Python script from
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vimwiki/utils/master/vwtags.py and follow
[[the]] instructions in it.

Полный список справки :h vimwiki
